
Form W-9 and Instructions 
Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification
(Rev. December 2014)
Cat. No. 31436E

Provided by the:
Internal Revenue Service
Alternative Media Center

In 1 File
Print pages 1-4 and 1-4
 
Contents

Section:  Page
Form W-9:  1
     Part I--Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN):  1
     Part II--Certification:  1
     General Instructions:  1
     Purpose of Form:  1
     Backup Withholding:  2
     What is FATCA reporting?:  2
     Updating Your Information:  2
     Penalties:  2
     Specific Instructions:  2
     Line 1:  2
     Line 2:  3
     Line 3:  3
     Line 4, Exemptions:  3
     Line 5:  3
     Line 6:  3
     Part I. Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN):  3
     Part II. Certification:  4
     What Name and Number To Give the Requester:  4
     Secure Your Tax Records from Identity Theft:  4
Instructions for the Requester of Form W-9:  1
     Future Developments:  1
     Reminders:  1
     How Do I Know When To Use Form W-9?:  1
     Electronic Submission of Forms W-9:  1
     Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN):  2
     Substitute Form W-9:  2
     TIN Applied for:  2
     Payees Exempt From Backup Withholding:  3
     Payments Exempt From Backup Withholding:  3
     Payees and Account Holders Exempt From FATCA Reporting:  4
     Joint Foreign Payees:  4
     Names and TINs To Use for Information Reporting:  4
     Notices From the IRS:  4
     Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) Matching:  4
     Additional Information:  4

This electronic edition contains the entire text of the print editions.

<page 1>

Form W-9
Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification
(Rev. December 2014)

Give Form to the requester. Do not send to the IRS.

Print or type. See Specific Instructions on page 2.
1. Name (as shown on your income tax return). Name is required on this line; do not leave this line blank: ----
2. Business name/disregarded entity name, if different from above: ----
3. Check appropriate box for federal tax classification; check only one of the following seven boxes:
     [--] Individual/Sole proprietor or single-member LLC
     [--] C Corporation
     [--] S Corporation
     [--] Partnership
     [--] Trust/estate
     [--] Limited liability company. Enter the tax classification (C = C corporation, S = S corporation, P = partnership) ----
     Note. For a single-member LLC that is disregarded, do not check LLC; check the appropriate box in the line above for the tax classification of the single-member owner.
     [--] Other (see instructions) ----
4. Exemtions (codes apply only to certain entities, not individuals; see instructions on page 3):
     Exempt payee code (if any): ----
     Exemption from FATCA reporting code (if any): ---- (Applies to accounts maintained outside the U.S.)
5. Address (number, street, and apt. or suite no.): ----
6. City, state, and ZIP code: ----
7. List account number(s) here (optional): ----
Requester's name and address (optional): ----

Part I--Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN)

Enter your TIN in the appropriate box. The TIN provided must match the name given on line 1 to avoid backup withholding. For individuals, this is generally your social security number (SSN). However, for a resident alien, sole proprietor, or disregarded entity, see the Part I instructions on page 3. For other entities, it is your employer identification number (EIN). If you do not have a number, see How to get a TIN on page 3.

Note. If the account is in more than one name, see the instructions for line 1 and the chart on page 4 for guidelines on whose number to enter.
Social security number: ----
or
Employer identification number: ----

Part II--Certification

Under penalties of perjury, I certify that:
1. The number shown on this form is my correct taxpayer identification number (or I am waiting for a number to be issued to me); and
2. I am not subject to backup withholding because: (a) I am exempt from backup withholding, or (b) I have not been notified by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that I am subject to backup withholding as a result of a failure to report all interest or dividends, or (c) the IRS has notified me that I am no longer subject to backup withholding; and
3. I am a U.S. citizen or other U.S. person (defined below); and
4. The FATCA code(s) entered on this form (if any) indicating that I am exempt from FATCA reporting is correct.

Certification instructions. You must cross out item 2 above if you have been notified by the IRS that you are currently subject to backup withholding because you have failed to report all interest and dividends on your tax return. For real estate transactions, item 2 does not apply. For mortgage interest paid, acquisition or abandonment of secured property, cancellation of debt, contributions to an individual retirement arrangement (IRA), and generally, payments other than interest and dividends, you are not required to sign the certification, but you must provide your correct TIN. See the instructions on page 3.

Sign Here
Signature of U.S. person: ----; Date: ----

General Instructions

Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code unless otherwise noted.

Future developments. Information about developments affecting Form W-9 (such as legislation enacted after we release it) is at www.irs.gov/fw9.

Purpose of Form

An individual or entity (Form W-9 requester) who is required to file an information return with the IRS must obtain your correct taxpayer identification number (TIN) which may be your social security number (SSN), individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN), adoption taxpayer identification number (ATIN), or employer identification number (EIN), to report on an information return the amount paid to you, or other amount reportable on an information return. Examples of information returns include, but are not limited to, the following:
-- Form 1099-INT (interest earned or paid)
-- Form 1099-DIV (dividends, including those from stocks or mutual funds)
-- Form 1099-MISC (various types of income, prizes, awards, or gross proceeds)
-- Form 1099-B (stock or mutual fund sales and certain other transactions by brokers)
-- Form 1099-S (proceeds from real estate transactions)
-- Form 1099-K (merchant card and third party network transactions)
-- Form 1098 (home mortgage interest), 1098-E (student loan interest), 1098-T (tuition)
-- Form 1099-C (canceled debt)
-- Form 1099-A (acquisition or abandonment of secured property)

Use Form W-9 only if you are a U.S. person (including a resident alien), to provide your correct TIN.

If you do not return Form W-9 to the requester with a TIN, you might be subject to backup withholding. See What is backup withholding? on page 2.

By signing the filled-out form, you:
1. Certify that the TIN you are giving is correct (or you are waiting for a number to be issued),
2. Certify that you are not subject to backup withholding, or
3. Claim exemption from backup withholding if you are a U.S. exempt payee. If applicable, you are also certifying that as a U.S. person, your allocable share of any partnership income from a U.S. trade or business is not subject to the withholding tax on foreign partners' share of effectively connected income, and
4. Certify that FATCA code(s) entered on this form (if any) indicating that you are exempt from the FATCA reporting, is correct. See What is FATCA reporting? on page 2 for further information.

<page 2>

Note. If you are a U.S. person and a requester gives you a form other than Form W-9 to request your TIN, you must use the requester's form if it is substantially similar to this Form W-9.

Definition of a U.S. person. For federal tax purposes, you are considered a U.S. person if you are:
-- An individual who is a U.S. citizen or U.S. resident alien;
-- A partnership, corporation, company, or association created or organized in the United States or under the laws of the United States;
-- An estate (other than a foreign estate); or
-- A domestic trust (as defined in Regulations section 301.7701-7).

Special rules for partnerships. Partnerships that conduct a trade or business in the United States are generally required to pay a withholding tax under section 1446 on any foreign partners' share of effectively connected taxable income from such business. Further, in certain cases where a Form W-9 has not been received, the rules under section 1446 require a partnership to presume that a partner is a foreign person, and pay the section 1446 withholding tax. Therefore, if you are a U.S. person that is a partner in a partnership conducting a trade or business in the United States, provide Form W-9 to the partnership to establish your U.S. status and avoid section 1446 withholding on your share of partnership income.

In the cases below, the following person must give Form W-9 to the partnership for purposes of establishing its U.S. status and avoiding withholding on its allocable share of net income from the partnership conducting a trade or business in the United States:
-- In the case of a disregarded entity with a U.S. owner, the U.S. owner of the disregarded entity and not the entity;
-- In the case of a grantor trust with a U.S. grantor or other U.S. owner, generally, the U.S. grantor or other U.S. owner of the grantor trust and not the trust; and
-- In the case of a U.S. trust (other than a grantor trust), the U.S. trust (other than a grantor trust) and not the beneficiaries of the trust.

Foreign person. If you are a foreign person or the U.S. branch of a foreign bank that has elected to be treated as a U.S. person, do not use Form W-9. Instead, use the appropriate Form W-8 or Form 8233 (see Publication 515, Withholding of Tax on Nonresident Aliens and Foreign Entities).

Nonresident alien who becomes a resident alien. Generally, only a nonresident alien individual may use the terms of a tax treaty to reduce or eliminate U.S. tax on certain types of income. However, most tax treaties contain a provision known as a "saving clause." Exceptions specified in the saving clause may permit an exemption from tax to continue for certain types of income even after the payee has otherwise become a U.S. resident alien for tax purposes.

If you are a U.S. resident alien who is relying on an exception contained in the saving clause of a tax treaty to claim an exemption from U.S. tax on certain types of income, you must attach a statement to Form W-9 that specifies the following five items:
1. The treaty country. Generally, this must be the same treaty under which you claimed exemption from tax as a nonresident alien.
2. The treaty article addressing the income.
3. The article number (or location) in the tax treaty that contains the saving clause and its exceptions.
4. The type and amount of income that qualifies for the exemption from tax.
5. Sufficient facts to justify the exemption from tax under the terms of the treaty article.

Example. Article 20 of the U.S.-China income tax treaty allows an exemption from tax for scholarship income received by a Chinese student temporarily present in the United States. Under U.S. law, this student will become a resident alien for tax purposes if his or her stay in the United States exceeds 5 calendar years. However, paragraph 2 of the first Protocol to the U.S.-China treaty (dated April 30, 1984) allows the provisions of Article 20 to continue to apply even after the Chinese student becomes a resident alien of the United States. A Chinese student who qualifies for this exception (under paragraph 2 of the first protocol) and is relying on this exception to claim an exemption from tax on his or her scholarship or fellowship income would attach to Form W-9 a statement that includes the information described above to support that exemption.

If you are a nonresident alien or a foreign entity, give the requester the appropriate completed Form W-8 or Form 8233.

Backup Withholding

What is backup withholding? Persons making certain payments to you must under certain conditions withhold and pay to the IRS 28% of such payments. This is called "backup withholding." Payments that may be subject to backup withholding include interest, tax-exempt interest, dividends, broker and barter exchange transactions, rents, royalties, nonemployee pay, payments made in settlement of payment card and third party network transactions, and certain payments from fishing boat operators. Real estate transactions are not subject to backup withholding.

You will not be subject to backup withholding on payments you receive if you give the requester your correct TIN, make the proper certifications, and report all your taxable interest and dividends on your tax return.

Payments you receive will be subject to backup withholding if:
1. You do not furnish your TIN to the requester,
2. You do not certify your TIN when required (see the Part II instructions on page 3 for details),
3. The IRS tells the requester that you furnished an incorrect TIN,
4. The IRS tells you that you are subject to backup withholding because you did not report all your interest and dividends on your tax return (for reportable interest and dividends only), or
5. You do not certify to the requester that you are not subject to backup withholding under 4 above (for reportable interest and dividend accounts opened after 1983 only).

Certain payees and payments are exempt from backup withholding. See Exempt payee code on page 3 and the separate Instructions for the Requester of Form W-9 for more information.

Also see Special rules for partnerships above.

What is FATCA reporting?

The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) requires a participating foreign financial institution to report all United States account holders that are specified United States persons. Certain payees are exempt from FATCA reporting. See Exemption from FATCA reporting code on page 3 and the Instructions for the Requester of Form W-9 for more information.

Updating Your Information

You must provide updated information to any person to whom you claimed to be an exempt payee if you are no longer an exempt payee and anticipate receiving reportable payments in the future from this person. For example, you may need to provide updated information if you are a C corporation that elects to be an S corporation, or if you no longer are tax exempt. In addition, you must furnish a new Form W-9 if the name or TIN changes for the account; for example, if the grantor of a grantor trust dies.

Penalties

Failure to furnish TIN. If you fail to furnish your correct TIN to a requester, you are subject to a penalty of $50 for each such failure unless your failure is due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect.

Civil penalty for false information with respect to withholding. If you make a false statement with no reasonable basis that results in no backup withholding, you are subject to a $500 penalty.

Criminal penalty for falsifying information. Willfully falsifying certifications or affirmations may subject you to criminal penalties including fines and/or imprisonment.

Misuse of TINs. If the requester discloses or uses TINs in violation of federal law, the requester may be subject to civil and criminal penalties.

Specific Instructions

Line 1

You must enter one of the following on this line; do not leave this line blank. The name should match the name on your tax return.

If this Form W-9 is for a joint account, list first, and then circle, the name of the person or entity whose number you entered in Part I of Form W-9.

a. Individual. Generally, enter the name shown on your tax return. If you have changed your last name without informing the Social Security Administration (SSA) of the name change, enter your first name, the last name as shown on your social security card, and your new last name.

Note. ITIN applicant: Enter your individual name as it was entered on your Form W-7 application, line 1a. This should also be the same as the name you entered on the Form 1040/1040A/1040EZ you filed with your application.

b. Sole proprietor or single-member LLC. Enter your individual name as shown on your 1040/1040A/1040EZ on line 1. You may enter your business, trade, or "doing business as" (DBA) name on line 2.
c. Partnership, LLC that is not a single-member LLC, C Corporation, or S Corporation. Enter the entity's name as shown on the entity's tax return on line 1 and any business, trade, or DBA name on line 2.
d. Other entities. Enter your name as shown on required U.S. federal tax documents on line 1. This name should match the name shown on the charter or other legal document creating the entity. You may enter any business, trade, or DBA name on line 2.
e. Disregarded entity. For U.S. federal tax purposes, an entity that is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner is treated as a "disregarded entity." See Regulations section 301.7701-2(c)(2)(iii). Enter the owner's name on line 1. The name of the entity entered on line 1 should never be a disregarded entity. The name on line 1 should be the name shown on the income tax return on which the income should be reported. For example, if a foreign LLC that is treated as a disregarded entity for U.S. federal tax purposes has a single owner that is a U.S. person, the U.S. owner's name is required to be provided on line 1. If the direct owner of the entity is also a disregarded entity, enter the first owner that is not disregarded for federal tax purposes. Enter the disregarded entity's name on line 2, "Business name/disregarded entity name." If the owner of the disregarded entity is a foreign person, the owner must complete an appropriate Form W-8 instead of a Form W-9. This is the case even if the foreign person has a U.S. TIN.

<page 3>

Line 2

If you have a business name, trade name, DBA name, or disregarded entity name, you may enter it on line 2.

Line 3

Check the appropriate box in line 3 for the U.S. federal tax classification of the person whose name is entered on line 1. Check only one box in line 3.

Limited Liability Company (LLC). If the name on line 1 is an LLC treated as a partnership for U.S. federal tax purposes, check the "Limited Liability Company" box and enter "P" in the space provided. If the LLC has filed Form 8832 or 2553 to be taxed as a corporation, check the "Limited Liability Company" box and in the space provided enter "C" for C corporation or "S" for S corporation. If it is a single-member LLC that is a disregarded entity, do not check the "Limited Liability Company" box; instead check the first box in line 3 "Individual/sole proprietor or single-member LLC."

Line 4, Exemptions

If you are exempt from backup withholding and/or FATCA reporting, enter in the appropriate space in line 4 any code(s) that may apply to you.

Exempt payee code.
-- Generally, individuals (including sole proprietors) are not exempt from backup withholding.
-- Except as provided below, corporations are exempt from backup withholding for certain payments, including interest and dividends.
-- Corporations are not exempt from backup withholding for payments made in settlement of payment card or third party network transactions.
-- Corporations are not exempt from backup withholding with respect to attorneys' fees or gross proceeds paid to attorneys, and corporations that provide medical or health care services are not exempt with respect to payments reportable on Form 1099-MISC.

The following codes identify payees that are exempt from backup withholding. Enter the appropriate code in the space in line 4.
1--An organization exempt from tax under section 501(a), any IRA, or a custodial account under section 403(b)(7) if the account satisfies the requirements of section 401(f)(2)
2--The United States or any of its agencies or instrumentalities
3--A state, the District of Columbia, a U.S. commonwealth or possession, or any of their political subdivisions or instrumentalities
4--A foreign government or any of its political subdivisions, agencies, or instrumentalities
5--A corporation
6--A dealer in securities or commodities required to register in the United States, the District of Columbia, or a U.S. commonwealth or possession
7--A futures commission merchant registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
8--A real estate investment trust
9--An entity registered at all times during the tax year under the Investment Company Act of 1940
10--A common trust fund operated by a bank under section 584(a)
11--A financial institution
12--A middleman known in the investment community as a nominee or custodian
13--A trust exempt from tax under section 664 or described in section 4947

The following chart shows types of payments that may be exempt from backup withholding. The chart applies to the exempt payees listed above, 1 through 13.

Note: In this table, columns follow each other in this order: IF the payment is for: THEN the payment is exempt for ...
Interest and dividend payments: All exempt payees except for 7
Broker transactions: Exempt payees 1 through 4 and 6 through 11 and all C corporations. S corporations must not enter an exempt payee code because they are exempt only for sales of noncovered securities acquired prior to 2012.
Barter exchange transactions and patronage dividends: Exempt payees 1 through 4
Payments over $600 required to be reported and direct sales over $5,000 *1: Generally, exempt payees 1 through 5 *2
Payments made in settlement of payment card or third party network transactions: Exempt payees 1 through 4
       *1 See Form 1099-MISC, Miscellaneous Income, and its instructions.
       *2 However, the following payments made to a corporation and reportable on Form 1099-MISC are not exempt from backup withholding: medical and health care payments, attorneys' fees, gross proceeds paid to an attorney reportable under section 6045(f), and payments for services paid by a federal executive agency.

Exemption from FATCA reporting code. The following codes identify payees that are exempt from reporting under FATCA. These codes apply to persons submitting this form for accounts maintained outside of the United States by certain foreign financial institutions. Therefore, if you are only submitting this form for an account you hold in the United States, you may leave this field blank. Consult with the person requesting this form if you are uncertain if the financial institution is subject to these requirements. A requester may indicate that a code is not required by providing you with a Form W-9 with "Not Applicable" (or any similar indication) written or printed on the line for a FATCA exemption code.
A--An organization exempt from tax under section 501(a) or any individual retirement plan as defined in section 7701(a)(37)
B--The United States or any of its agencies or instrumentalities
C--A state, the District of Columbia, a U.S. commonwealth or possession, or any of their political subdivisions or instrumentalities
D--A corporation the stock of which is regularly traded on one or more established securities markets, as described in Regulations section 1.1472-1(c)(1)(i)
E--A corporation that is a member of the same expanded affiliated group as a corporation described in Regulations section 1.1472-1(c)(1)(i)
F--A dealer in securities, commodities, or derivative financial instruments (including notional principal contracts, futures, forwards, and options) that is registered as such under the laws of the United States or any state
G--A real estate investment trust
H--A regulated investment company as defined in section 851 or an entity registered at all times during the tax year under the Investment Company Act of 1940
I--A common trust fund as defined in section 584(a)
J--A bank as defined in section 581
K--A broker
L--A trust exempt from tax under section 664 or described in section 4947(a)(1)
M--A tax exempt trust under a section 403(b) plan or section 457(g) plan

Note. You may wish to consult with the financial institution requesting this form to determine whether the FATCA code and/or exempt payee code should be completed.

Line 5

Enter your address (number, street, and apartment or suite number). This is where the requester of this Form W-9 will mail your information returns.

Line 6

Enter your city, state, and ZIP code.

Part I. Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN)

Enter your TIN in the appropriate box. If you are a resident alien and you do not have and are not eligible to get an SSN, your TIN is your IRS individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN). Enter it in the social security number box. If you do not have an ITIN, see How to get a TIN below.

If you are a sole proprietor and you have an EIN, you may enter either your SSN or EIN. However, the IRS prefers that you use your SSN.

If you are a single-member LLC that is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner (see Limited Liability Company (LLC) on this page), enter the owner's SSN (or EIN, if the owner has one). Do not enter the disregarded entity's EIN. If the LLC is classified as a corporation or partnership, enter the entity's EIN.

Note. See the chart on page 4 for further clarification of name and TIN combinations.
How to get a TIN. If you do not have a TIN, apply for one immediately. To apply for an SSN, get Form SS-5, Application for a Social Security Card, from your local SSA office or get this form online at www.ssa.gov. You may also get this form by calling 1-800-772-1213. Use Form W-7, Application for IRS Individual Taxpayer Identification Number, to apply for an ITIN, or Form SS-4, Application for Employer Identification Number, to apply for an EIN. You can apply for an EIN online by accessing the IRS website at www.irs.gov/businesses and clicking on Employer Identification Number (EIN) under Starting a Business. You can get Forms W-7 and SS-4 from the IRS by visiting IRS.gov or by calling 1-800-TAX-FORM (1-800-829-3676).

If you are asked to complete Form W-9 but do not have a TIN, apply for a TIN and write "Applied For" in the space for the TIN, sign and date the form, and give it to the requester. For interest and dividend payments, and certain payments made with respect to readily tradable instruments, generally you will have 60 days to get a TIN and give it to the requester before you are subject to backup withholding on payments. The 60-day rule does not apply to other types of payments. You will be subject to backup withholding on all such payments until you provide your TIN to the requester.

Note. Entering "Applied For" means that you have already applied for a TIN or that you intend to apply for one soon.

Caution: A disregarded U.S. entity that has a foreign owner must use the appropriate Form W-8.

<page 4>

Part II. Certification

To establish to the withholding agent that you are a U.S. person, or resident alien, sign Form W-9. You may be requested to sign by the withholding agent even if items 1, 4, or 5 below indicate otherwise.

For a joint account, only the person whose TIN is shown in Part I should sign (when required). In the case of a disregarded entity, the person identified on line 1 must sign. Exempt payees, see Exempt payee code earlier.

Signature requirements. Complete the certification as indicated in items 1 through 5 below.
1. Interest, dividend, and barter exchange accounts opened before 1984 and broker accounts considered active during 1983. You must give your correct TIN, but you do not have to sign the certification.
2. Interest, dividend, broker, and barter exchange accounts opened after 1983 and broker accounts considered inactive during 1983. You must sign the certification or backup withholding will apply. If you are subject to backup withholding and you are merely providing your correct TIN to the requester, you must cross out item 2 in the certification before signing the form.
3. Real estate transactions. You must sign the certification. You may cross out item 2 of the certification.
4. Other payments. You must give your correct TIN, but you do not have to sign the certification unless you have been notified that you have previously given an incorrect TIN. "Other payments" include payments made in the course of the requester's trade or business for rents, royalties, goods (other than bills for merchandise), medical and health care services (including payments to corporations), payments to a nonemployee for services, payments made in settlement of payment card and third party network transactions, payments to certain fishing boat crew members and fishermen, and gross proceeds paid to attorneys (including payments to corporations).
5. Mortgage interest paid by you, acquisition or abandonment of secured property, cancellation of debt, qualified tuition program payments (under section 529), IRA, Coverdell ESA, Archer MSA or HSA contributions or distributions, and pension distributions. You must give your correct TIN, but you do not have to sign the certification.

What Name and Number To Give the Requester

For this type of account: Give name and SSN of ...
1. Individual: The individual
2. Two or more individuals (joint account): The actual owner of the account or, if combined funds, the first individual on the account *1
3. Custodian account of a minor (Uniform Gift to Minors Act): The minor *2
4a. The usual revocable savings trust (grantor is also trustee): The grantor-trustee *1
4b. So-called trust account that is not a legal or valid trust under state law: The actual owner *1
5. Sole proprietorship or disregarded entity owned by an individual: The owner *3
6. Grantor trust filing under Optional Form 1099 Filing Method 1 (see Regulations section 1.671-4(b)(2)(i)(A)): The grantor *5

For this type of account: Give name and EIN of ...
7. Disregarded entity not owned by an individual: The owner
8. A valid trust, estate, or pension trust: Legal entity *4
9. Corporation or LLC electing corporate status on Form 8832 or Form 2553: The corporation
10. Association, club, religious, charitable, educational, or other tax-exempt organization: The organization
11. Partnership or multi-member LLC: The partnership
12. A broker or registered nominee: The broker or nominee
13. Account with the Department of Agriculture in the name of a public entity (such as a state or local government, school district, or prison) that receives agricultural program payments: The public entity
14. Grantor trust filing under the Form 1041 Filing Method or the Optional Form 1099 Filing Method 2 (see Regulations section 1.671-4(b)(2)(i)(B)): The trust
       *1 List first and circle the name of the person whose number you furnish. If only one person on a joint account has an SSN, that person's number must be furnished.
       *2 Circle the minor's name and furnish the minor's SSN.
       *3 You must show your individual name and you may also enter your business or DBA name on the "Business name/disregarded entity" name line. You may use either your SSN or EIN (if you have one), but the IRS encourages you to use your SSN.
       *4 List first and circle the name of the trust, estate, or pension trust. (Do not furnish the TIN of the personal representative or trustee unless the legal entity itself is not designated in the account title.) Also see Special rules for partnerships on page 2.
       *5 Note. Grantor also must provide a Form W-9 to trustee of trust.

Note. If no name is circled when more than one name is listed, the number will be considered to be that of the first name listed.

Secure Your Tax Records from Identity Theft

Identity theft occurs when someone uses your personal information such as your name, SSN, or other identifying information, without your permission, to commit fraud or other crimes. An identity thief may use your SSN to get a job or may file a tax return using your SSN to receive a refund.

To reduce your risk:
-- Protect your SSN,
-- Ensure your employer is protecting your SSN, and
-- Be careful when choosing a tax preparer.

If your tax records are affected by identity theft and you receive a notice from the IRS, respond right away to the name and phone number printed on the IRS notice or letter.

If your tax records are not currently affected by identity theft but you think you are at risk due to a lost or stolen purse or wallet, questionable credit card activity or credit report, contact the IRS Identity Theft Hotline at 1-800-908-4490 or submit Form 14039.

For more information, see Publication 4535, Identity Theft Prevention and Victim Assistance.

Victims of identity theft who are experiencing economic harm or a system problem, or are seeking help in resolving tax problems that have not been resolved through normal channels, may be eligible for Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) assistance. You can reach TAS by calling the TAS toll-free case intake line at 1-877-777-4778 or TTY/TDD 1-800-829-4059.

Protect yourself from suspicious emails or phishing schemes. Phishing is the creation and use of email and websites designed to mimic legitimate business emails and websites. The most common act is sending an email to a user falsely claiming to be an established legitimate enterprise in an attempt to scam the user into surrendering private information that will be used for identity theft.

The IRS does not initiate contacts with taxpayers via emails. Also, the IRS does not request personal detailed information through email or ask taxpayers for the PIN numbers, passwords, or similar secret access information for their credit card, bank, or other financial accounts.

If you receive an unsolicited email claiming to be from the IRS, forward this message to phishing@irs.gov. You may also report misuse of the IRS name, logo, or other IRS property to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) at 1-800-366-4484. You can forward suspicious emails to the Federal Trade Commission at: spam@uce.gov or contact them at www.ftc.gov/idtheft or 1-877-IDTHEFT (1-877-438-4338).

Visit IRS.gov to learn more about identity theft and how to reduce your risk.

Privacy Act Notice

Section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code requires you to provide your correct TIN to persons (including federal agencies) who are required to file information returns with the IRS to report interest, dividends, or certain other income paid to you; mortgage interest you paid; the acquisition or abandonment of secured property; the cancellation of debt; or contributions you made to an IRA, Archer MSA, or HSA. The person collecting this form uses the information on the form to file information returns with the IRS, reporting the above information. Routine uses of this information include giving it to the Department of Justice for civil and criminal litigation and to cities, states, the District of Columbia, and U.S. commonwealths and possessions for use in administering their laws. The information also may be disclosed to other countries under a treaty, to federal and state agencies to enforce civil and criminal laws, or to federal law enforcement and intelligence agencies to combat terrorism. You must provide your TIN whether or not you are required to file a tax return. Under section 3406, payers must generally withhold a percentage of taxable interest, dividend, and certain other payments to a payee who does not give a TIN to the payer. Certain penalties may also apply for providing false or fraudulent information.

<page 1>

Instructions for the Requester of Form W-9
(Rev. December 2014)
Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification

Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code unless otherwise noted.

Future Developments

For the latest developments related to Form W-9 and its instructions, such as legislation enacted after they were published, go to www.irs.gov/w9.

Reminders

Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA). FATCA requires a participating foreign financial institution to report all U.S. account holders that are specified U.S. persons. Form W-9 and the Instructions for the Requester of Form W-9 have an Exemptions box on the front of the form that includes entry for the Exempt payee code (if any) and Exemption from FATCA Reporting Code (if any). The references for the appropriate codes are in the Exemptions section of Form W-9, and in the Payees Exempt from Backup Withholding and Payees and Account Holders Exempt From FATCA Reporting sections of these instructions.

The Certification section in Part II of Form W-9 includes certification relating to FATCA reporting.

Payment card and third party network transactions. References to payments made in settlement of payment card and third party network transactions are included in the Purpose of Form section of Form W-9. For more information, see the Instructions for Form 1099-K, Payment Card and Third Party Network Transactions on IRS.gov. Also, visit www.irs.gov/1099k.

Backup withholding rate. The backup withholding rate is 28% for reportable payments.

TIN matching e-services. The IRS website offers TIN Matching e-services for certain payers to validate name and TIN combinations. See Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) Matching on page 4.

How Do I Know When To Use Form W-9?

Use Form W-9 to request the taxpayer identification number (TIN) of a U.S. person (including a resident alien) and to request certain certifications and claims for exemption. (See Purpose of Form on Form W-9.) Withholding agents may require signed Forms W-9 from U.S. exempt recipients to overcome a presumption of foreign status. For federal purposes, a U.S. person includes but is not limited to:
-- An individual who is a U.S. citizen or U.S. resident alien,
-- A partnership, corporation, company, or association created or organized in the United States or under the laws of the United States,
-- Any estate (other than a foreign estate), or
-- A domestic trust (as defined in Regulations section 301.7701-7).

A partnership may require a signed Form W-9 from its U.S. partners to overcome a presumption of foreign status and to avoid withholding on the partner's allocable share of the partnership's effectively connected income. For more information, see Regulations section 1.1446-1.

Advise foreign persons to use the appropriate Form W-8 or Form 8233, Exemption From Withholding on Compensation for Independent (and Certain Dependent) Personal Services of a Nonresident Alien Individual. See Pub. 515, Withholding of Tax on Nonresident Aliens and Foreign Entities, for more information and a list of the W-8 forms.

Also, a nonresident alien individual may, under certain circumstances, claim treaty benefits on scholarships and fellowship grant income. See Pub. 515 or Pub. 519, U.S. Tax Guide for Aliens, for more information.

Electronic Submission of Forms W-9

Requesters may establish a system for payees and payees' agents to submit Forms W-9 electronically, including by fax. A requester is anyone required to file an information return. A payee is anyone required to provide a taxpayer identification number (TIN) to the requester.

Payee's agent. A payee's agent can be an investment advisor (corporation, partnership, or individual) or an introducing broker. An investment advisor must be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The introducing broker is a broker-dealer that is regulated by the SEC and the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., and that is not a payer. Except for a broker who acts as a payee's agent for "readily tradable instruments," the advisor or broker must show in writing to the payer that the payee authorized the advisor or broker to transmit the Form W-9 to the payer.

Electronic system. Generally, the electronic system must:
-- Ensure the information received is the information sent, and document all occasions of user access that result in the submission;
-- Make reasonably certain that the person accessing the system and submitting the form is the person identified on Form W-9, the investment advisor, or the introducing broker;
-- Provide the same information as the paper Form W-9;
-- Be able to supply a hard copy of the electronic Form W-9 if the Internal Revenue Service requests it; and
-- Require as the final entry in the submission an electronic signature by the payee whose name is on Form W-9 that authenticates and verifies the submission. The electronic signature must be under penalties of perjury and the perjury statement must contain the language of the paper Form W-9.

<page 2>

TIP: For Forms W-9 that are not required to be signed, the electronic system need not provide for an electronic signature or a perjury statement.

For more details, see the following.
-- Announcement 98-27, which is on page 30 of Internal Revenue Bulletin 1998-15 at www.irs.gov/pub/irs-irbs/irb98-15.pdf.
-- Announcement 2001-91, which is on page 221 of Internal Revenue Bulletin 2001-36 at www.irs.gov/pub/irs-irbs/irb01-36.pdf.

Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN)

Form W-9 (or an acceptable substitute) is used by persons required to file information returns with the IRS to get the payee's (or other person's) correct name and TIN. For individuals, the TIN is generally a social security number (SSN).

However, in some cases, individuals who become U.S. resident aliens for tax purposes are not eligible to obtain an SSN. This includes certain resident aliens who must receive information returns but who cannot obtain an SSN.

These individuals must apply for an ITIN on Form W-7, Application for IRS Individual Taxpayer Identification Number, unless they have an application pending for an SSN. Individuals who have an ITIN must provide it on Form W-9.

Substitute Form W-9

You may develop and use your own Form W-9 (a substitute Form W-9) if its content is substantially similar to the official IRS Form W-9 and it satisfies certain certification requirements.

You may incorporate a substitute Form W-9 into other business forms you customarily use, such as account signature cards. However, the certifications on the substitute Form W-9 must clearly state (as shown on the official Form W-9) that under penalties of perjury:
1. The payee's TIN is correct,
2. The payee is not subject to backup withholding due to failure to report interest and dividend income,
3. The payee is a U.S. person, and
4. The FATCA code entered on this form (if any) indicating that the payee is exempt from FATCA reporting is correct.

You may provide certification instructions on a substitute Form W-9 in a manner similar to the official form. If you are not collecting a FATCA exemption code by omitting that field from the substitute Form W-9 (see Payees and Account Holders Exempt From FATCA Reporting, later), you may notify the payee that item 4 does not apply.

You may not:
1. Use a substitute Form W-9 that requires the payee, by signing, to agree to provisions unrelated to the required certifications, or
2. Imply that a payee may be subject to backup withholding unless the payee agrees to provisions on the substitute form that are unrelated to the required certifications.

A substitute Form W-9 that contains a separate signature line just for the certifications satisfies the requirement that the certifications be clearly stated.

If a single signature line is used for the required certifications and other provisions, the certifications must be highlighted, boxed, printed in bold-face type, or presented in some other manner that causes the language to stand out from all other information contained on the substitute form. Additionally, the following statement must be presented to stand out in the same manner as described above and must appear immediately above the single signature line:

"The Internal Revenue Service does not require your consent to any provision of this document other than the certifications required to avoid backup withholding."

If you use a substitute form, you are required to provide the Form W-9 instructions to the payee only if he or she requests them. However, if the IRS has notified the payee that backup withholding applies, then you must instruct the payee to strike out the language in the certification that relates to underreporting. This instruction can be given orally or in writing. See item 2 of the Certification on Form W-9. You can replace "defined below" with "defined in the instructions" in item 3 of the Certification on Form W-9 when the instructions will not be provided to the payee except upon request. For more information, see Rev. Proc. 83-89, 1983-2 C.B. 613; amplified by Rev. Proc. 96-26, which is on page 22 of Internal Revenue Bulletin 1996-8 at www.irs.gov/pub/irs-irbs/irb96-08.pdf.

TIN Applied for

For interest and dividend payments and certain payments with respect to readily tradable instruments, the payee may return a properly completed, signed Form W-9 to you with "Applied For" written in Part I. This is an "awaiting-TIN" certificate. The payee has 60 calendar days, from the date you receive this certificate, to provide a TIN. If you do not receive the payee's TIN at that time, you must begin backup withholding on payments.

Reserve rule. You must backup withhold on any reportable payments made during the 60-day period if a payee withdraws more than $500 at one time, unless the payee reserves an amount equal to the current year's backup withholding rate on all reportable payments made to the account.

Alternative rule. You may also elect to backup withhold during this 60-day period, after a 7-day grace period, under one of the two alternative rules discussed below.

Option 1. Backup withhold on any reportable payments if the payee makes a withdrawal from the account after the close of 7 business days after you receive the awaiting-TIN certificate. Treat as reportable payments all cash withdrawals in an amount up to the reportable payments made from the day after you receive the awaiting-TIN certificate to the day of withdrawal.

Option 2. Backup withhold on any reportable payments made to the payee's account, regardless of whether the payee makes any withdrawals, beginning no later than 7 business days after you receive the awaiting-TIN certificate.

CAUTION: The 60-day exemption from backup withholding does not apply to any payment other than interest, dividends, and certain payments relating to readily tradable instruments. Any other reportable payment, such as nonemployee compensation, is subject to backup withholding immediately, even if the payee has applied for and is awaiting a TIN.

<page 3>

Even if the payee gives you an awaiting-TIN certificate, you must backup withhold on reportable interest and dividend payments if the payee does not certify, under penalties of perjury, that the payee is not subject to backup withholding.

If you do not collect backup withholding from affected payees as required, you may become liable for any uncollected amount.

Payees Exempt From Backup Withholding

The following payees are exempt from backup withholding with respect to the payments below, and should enter the corresponding exempt payee code on Form W-9. If a payee is not exempt, you are required to backup withhold on reportable payments if the payee does not provide a TIN in the manner required or sign the certification, if required.
1. An organization exempt from tax under section 501(a), any IRA, or a custodial account under section 403(b)(7) if the account satisfies the requirements of section 401(f)(2);
2. The United States or any of its agencies or instrumentalities;
3. A state, the District of Columbia, a U.S. commonwealth or possession, or any of their political subdivisions, agencies, or instrumentalities;
4. A foreign government or any of its political subdivisions, agencies, or instrumentalities; or
5. A corporation;
6. A dealer in securities or commodities required to register in the United States, the District of Columbia, or a U.S. commonwealth or possession;
7. A futures commission merchant registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission;
8. A real estate investment trust;
9. An entity registered at all times during the tax year under the Investment Company Act of 1940;
10. A common trust fund operated by a bank under section 584(a);
11. A financial institution;
12. A middleman known in the investment community as a nominee or custodian; or
13. A trust exempt from tax under section 664 or described in section 4947.

The following types of payments are exempt from backup withholding as indicated for payees listed in 1 through 13, above.

Interest and dividend payments. All listed payees are exempt except the payee in item 7.

Broker transactions. All payees listed in items 1 through 4 and 6 through 11 are exempt. Also, C corporations are exempt. A person registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 who regularly acts as a broker is also exempt.

Barter exchange transactions and patronage dividends. Only payees listed in items 1 through 4 are exempt.

Payments reportable under sections 6041 and 6041A. Payees listed in items 1 through 5 are generally exempt.

However, the following payments made to a corporation and reportable on Form 1099-MISC, Miscellaneous Income, are not exempt from backup withholding.
-- Medical and health care payments.
-- Attorneys' fees (also gross proceeds paid to an attorney, reportable under section 6045(f)).
-- Payments for services paid by a federal executive agency. (See Rev. Rul. 2003-66, which is on page 1115 of Internal Revenue Bulletin 2003-26 at www.irs.gov/pub/irs-irbs/irb03-26.pdf.)

Payments made in settlement of payment card or third party network transactions. Only payees listed in items 1 through 4 are exempt.

Payments Exempt From Backup Withholding

Payments that are not subject to information reporting also are not subject to backup withholding. For details, see sections 6041, 6041A, 6042, 6044, 6045, 6049, 6050A, 6050N, and 6050W and their regulations. The following payments are generally exempt from backup withholding.

Dividends and patronage dividends
-- Payments to nonresident aliens subject to withholding under section 1441.
-- Payments to partnerships not engaged in a trade or business in the United States and that have at least one nonresident alien partner.
-- Payments of patronage dividends not paid in money.
-- Payments made by certain foreign organizations.
-- Section 404(k) distributions made by an ESOP.

Interest payments
-- Payments of interest on obligations issued by individuals. However, if you pay $600 or more of interest in the course of your trade or business to a payee, you must report the payment. Backup withholding applies to the reportable payment if the payee has not provided a TIN or has provided an incorrect TIN.
-- Payments described in section 6049(b)(5) to nonresident aliens.
-- Payments on tax-free covenant bonds under section 1451.
-- Payments made by certain foreign organizations.
-- Mortgage or student loan interest paid to you.

Other types of payment
-- Wages.
-- Distributions from a pension, annuity, profit-sharing or stock bonus plan, any IRA, an owner-employee plan, or other deferred compensation plan.
-- Distributions from a medical or health savings account and long-term care benefits.
-- Certain surrenders of life insurance contracts.
-- Distribution from qualified tuition programs or Coverdell ESAs.
-- Gambling winnings if regular gambling winnings withholding is required under section 3402(q). However, if regular gambling winnings withholding is not required under section 3402(q), backup withholding applies if the payee fails to furnish a TIN.
-- Real estate transactions reportable under section 6045(e).
-- Cancelled debts reportable under section 6050P.
-- Fish purchases for cash reportable under section 6050R.

<page 4>

Payees and Account Holders Exempt From FATCA Reporting

Reporting under chapter 4 (FATCA) with respect to U.S. persons generally applies only to foreign financial institutions (FFI) (including a branch of a U.S. financial institution that is treated as an FFI under an applicable intergovernmental agreement (IGA)). Thus, for example, a U.S. financial institution maintaining an account in the United States does not need to collect an exemption code for FATCA reporting. If you are providing a Form W-9, you may pre-populate the FATCA exemption code with "Not Applicable," "N/A," or a similar indication that an exemption from FATCA reporting does not apply. Any payee that provides such a form, however, cannot be treated as exempt from FATCA reporting. For details on the FATCA reporting requirements, including specific information regarding which financial institutions are required to report, see sections 1471 to 1474 and related regulations. See Regulations section 1.1471-3(d)(2) for when an FFI may rely on documentary evidence to treat a U.S. person as other than a specified U.S. person and see Regulations section 1.1471-3(f)(3) for when an FFI may presume a U.S. person as other than a specified U.S. person.

If you receive a Form W-9 with a FATCA exemption code and you know or have reason to know the person is a specified U.S. person, you may not rely on the Form W-9 to treat the person as exempt from FATCA reporting. However, you may still rely on an otherwise completed Form W-9 to treat a person as a specified U.S. person. An exemption from FATCA reporting (or lack thereof) does not affect backup withholding as described earlier in these instructions. The following are not specified U.S. persons and are thus exempt from FATCA reporting:
A. An organization exempt from tax under section 501(a), or any individual retirement plan as defined in section 7701(a)(37);
B. The United States or any of its agencies or instrumentalities;
C. A state, the District of Columbia, a U.S. commonwealth or possession, or any of their political subdivisions, agencies, or instrumentalities;
D. A corporation the stock of which is regularly traded on one or more established securities markets, as described in Reg. section 1.1472-1(c)(1)(i);
E. A corporation that is a member of the same expanded affiliated group as a corporation described in Reg. section 1.1472-1(c)(1)(i);
F. A dealer in securities, commodities, or derivative financial instruments (including notional principal contracts, futures, forwards, and options) that is registered as such under the laws of the United States or any State;
G. A real estate investment trust;
H. A regulated investment company as defined in section 851 or an entity registered at all times during the tax year under the Investment Company Act of 1940;
I. A common trust fund as defined in section 584(a);
J. A bank as defined in section 581;
K. A broker;
L. A trust exempt from tax under section 664 or described in section 4947; or
M. A tax-exempt trust under a section 403(b) plan or section 457(g) plan.

Joint Foreign Payees

If the first payee listed on an account gives you a Form W-8 or a similar statement signed under penalties of perjury, backup withholding applies unless:
1. Every joint payee provides the statement regarding foreign status, or
2. Any one of the joint payees who has not established foreign status gives you a TIN.

If any one of the joint payees who has not established foreign status gives you a TIN, use that number for purposes of backup withholding and information reporting.

For more information on foreign payees, see the Instructions for the Requester of Forms W-8BEN, W-8ECI, W-8EXP, and W-8IMY.

Names and TINs To Use for Information Reporting

Show the full name and address as provided on Form W-9 on the information return filed with the IRS and on the copy furnished to the payee. If you made payments to more than one payee or the account is in more than one name, enter on the first name line of the information return only the name of the payee whose TIN is shown on Form W-9. You may show the names of any other individual payees in the area below the first name line on the information return. Forms W-9 showing an ITIN must have the name exactly as shown on line 1a of the Form W-7 application.

TIP: For more information on the names and TINs to use for information reporting, see section J of the General Instructions for Certain Information Returns.

Notices From the IRS

The IRS will send you a notice if the payee's name and TIN on the information return you filed do not match the IRS's records. (See Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) Matching.) You may have to send a "B" notice to the payee to solicit another TIN. Pub. 1281, Backup Withholding for Missing and Incorrect Name/TIN(s), contains copies of the two types of "B" notices.

Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) Matching

TIN Matching allows a payer or authorized agent who is required to file Forms 1099-B, DIV, INT, K, MISC, OID, and/or PATR to match TIN and name combinations with IRS records before submitting the forms to the IRS. TIN Matching is one of the e-services products that is offered and is accessible through the IRS website. Go to IRS.gov and enter e-services in the search box. It is anticipated that payers who validate the TIN and name combinations before filing information returns will receive fewer backup withholding (CP2100) notices and penalty notices.

Additional Information

For more information on backup withholding, see Pub. 1281.

End of Form W-9 and Instructions
